---
title: "Introduction to Systems Development"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Post Formats
tags:
  - Post Formats
  - readability
  - standard
permalink: /ejemplo
stages:
  - Feasibility studies
  - Requirements engineering
  - System design
  - Software development
  - Testing
  - Implementation
---

**Systems development** is the process of transforming business requirements into an operational IT system through a structured sequence of stages. These stages typically include the following:

{% for stage in page.stages %}
* {{stage}}.
{% endfor %}

The goal is to create more reliable and manageable systems, reducing reliance on individual developer competence by introducing standardized processes.

--- 

The following are the relationships of systems development to other disciplines:

* **Project management** plays a crucial role in <u>coordinating resources</u> and <u>ensuring that all stakeholders are aligned with the project goals</u>.

* **Business analysis** focuses on <u>identifying business problems and opportunities</u>, often involving IT solutions, and managing system requirements.

* **Systems architecture** involves <u>designing a coherent IT infrastructure</u> to support organizational growth.

* **Testing** ensures that the developed system <u>functions as expected</u>, even though no system can be guaranteed to be completely error-free.

* **Configuration management** tracks <u>system components</u> and <u>changes</u>.

* **Quality control processes and assurance** ensures the <u>system meets predefined standards</u> and <u>establishes standards</u>, respectively.

* **Service management** involves <u>maintaining IT services and infrastructure</u>, ensuring smooth operations and continuous support after the system is deployed.

---

On the other hand, **offshoring** and **outsourcing** have significantly influenced systems development.

**Offshoring** involves leveraging lower-cost, high-quality development resources in other countries, like India or Eastern European nations, while **outsourcing** refers to handing over development work to specialized IT firms.

Both practices offer cost savings but come with potential downsides, such as communication challenges (in offshoring) and a loss of direct control over critical systems (in outsourcing).

---


> Ahmed, Tahir, et al. Developing Information Systems : Practical guidance for IT professionals, edited by James Cadle, BCS Learning & Development Limited, 2014. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/bull-ebooks/detail.action?docID=1713962.

---

A continuación, se muestran los contenidos de la colección `examples`:

{%for example in site.examples %}
  <h2><a href="{{ example.url }}">{{ example.title }}</a></h2>
  <p>{{ example.description }}</p>
{% endfor %}

---

Y se accede al archivo `/_data/examples.json`:

{% for example in site.data.examples %}
  <h2>{{ example.name }}</h2>
  <p>{{ example.description }}</p>
{% endfor %}